## Minutes of the Pharma Oversight Committee 2023-03-15

### Attendees

* James Black
* Sean Healey = Pfizer
* Nate Mockler - Biogen
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio

### Absent

* Keaven Anderson - Merck
* Sumesh Kalappurakal - J&J
* Andy Nicholls - GSK 
* Novo Nordisk
* Parexel


Minutes by Joseph B Rickert

JBR brief those present on recent R Consortium activities that pertain to Pharma:

1. The LF Events Team has begun investigating locations for the useR! 2024 conference.
2. The R Submissions working group is addressing some minor problems with the Pilot 2 submission and will submit an update before asking the FDA to finish their final report. Eric Nantz is working to prepare the submissions. 
3. The issue encountered in the Pilot 2 submission about the propagation of population subsets in the Shiny app is of extreme importance to the FDA. They are very sensitive to the improper use of exploratory analysis in the Submissions review process and want to discourage the practice of trying to claim efficacy for a drug because it appears to benefit a subpopulation.
4. The RTRS wg group is making progress on their e-book tables document
5. The R Validation HUB is under the new leadership of Doug Kelkhoff who is taking over from Andy Nicholls. The group is committed to standing up a repository that would be used for FDA submissions and intends to coordinate with the R Repositories WG.
6. The Certification WG has moved to the stage of implementing their draft certification. They are working with the Linux Foundation certification group and the vendor Certivision.
7. JBR had a conversation with Randy Betancourt, Senior Director at **Altair** about the possibility of Altair joining the R Consortium: The following is written background provided by Randy:

> In December 2021, Altair acquired World Programming Ltd. including World Programming Systems (WPS), and all the staff.  In addition, Altair paid the remaining legal judgement to SAS Institute to lift the court-imposed injunction stemming from the lawsuit.  Since March 2022, Altair has been allowed to license SLC (the rebranded SAS language compiler formerly known as WPS) throughout the United States.  I joined Altair in May of last year.

> SLC has direct integration with R, where we can perform bi-directional interchange between SAS datasets R DataFrames.  I am building the case with executive management that Altair should develop accelerators which go beyond basic data interchange and find the places where we remove friction in real-world use cases related to R and SAS language integration.  Examples are exposing a


The next meeting of the Oversight committee will be on Wednesday, April 5, 2023 at 9AM Pacific time.
