
## Minutes of the Pharma Oversight Committee 2022-01-16

### Attendees
* Keaven Anderson
* James Black - Roche
* Bob Engle - Biogen
* Sumesh Kalappurakal - J&J
* Andy Nicholls - GSK
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio

JR brought the meeting to order and provide a brief status update of the Pharma related working groups:

1. Submissions: submitted an update to Pilot 1 through the ESG on 2022-02-11 and are waiting for the FDA response
2. RTRS making progress on their white paper: making progress on the white paper
3. R Validation Hub: AN reports he is working on the quarterly update to the greater Validation Hub membership
4. Repositories is considering alternative proposal for establishing repos that would be complementary to CRAN and also seeking CRANS cooperation in helping the R-Hub build system to implement the same package CRAN runs on systems built to the same specifications as the CRAN systems.
5. R Certification: making progress on white paper, but in need of new group leader
 
The update on the Submissions WG initiated a discussion on the difficulties that the FDA has in adopting new technology. JR noted that the FDA comprises many groups with different objectives that must cooperate and agree on technology changes. KA noted that every five years the FDA produces a document that outlines changes and new technology that the FDA would like to implement. See the TransCelerate document [Modernization of Statistical Analytics](https://www.transceleratebiopharmainc.com/initiatives/modernization-statistical-analytics/).

**Action Item**: KA offered to make contact with the TransCelerate group.
 
JR informed the group the annual elections of Silver Members to the RC Board where recently held and that three new member would be joining the RC Board. This led to a discussion about which companies who have employees participating in working group meetings might make good candidates for joining the RC, and he asked for help in recruiting new members:

**Action Item**: JR promised to send members the presentation on the benefits of joining the RC.

KA asked if there were any working groups looking for funding. Generally, the answer is no, however AN noted that the R Adoption Series would like to make use of a platform with more features than zoom.

**Action Item**: JR will determine if the R Adoption Series can use the Hopin platform that is being acquired for R/Medicine.

The discussion then turned to R/Pharma. AN reported that R/Pharma is in the beginning stages of planning a series of "task forces" to develop workshops on highly technical topics of interest to Pharma statisticians and programmers. These workshops would run throughout the year. AN and JB believed that, as a RC working group, R/Pharma would want to seek funding from the RC.

JR stated that he believed:

* The RC Board would want the R/Pharma conference to be successful and would want to provide some funding. 
* The correct path to securing funding would be for R/Pharma to request funding through the POC and have the POC bring the request to the Board.
* Over the past two years, R/Pharma has not been operating as an ISC WG. They have not held open meetings under the RC, nor have they published minutes or any materials on RC properties. If this continues, R/Pharma is likely to lose WG status. This decision is up to the ISC.
* The sooner that R/Pharma asks for funding the better
* As an independent non-profit organization, R/Pharma would have the power to sign contracts and assume financial responsibility for the R/Pharma conference. The RC could provide financial support to R/Pharma, but would not be in a position to assume responsibility for the conference.

**Action Item**: AN and JB will ask the R/Pharma organizers about funding.
