## Minutes of the Pharma Oversight Committee 2022-05-18

### Attendees
* Keaven Anderson
* James Black
* Sean Healey = Pfizer
* Sumesh Kalappurakal - J&J
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio

### Absent

* Bob Engle - Biogen
* Andy Nicholls - GSK 

Minutes by Joseph B Rickert

JBR began the meeting by providing an overview of the various R Consortium working activities that center around repositories. These include the [Repositories](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg) working group's exploration of special purpose repositories that might complement CRAN, and the R Validation Hub's interest in standing up a public repo to showcase their risk management approach to package validation.

James Black mentioned that in the Repositories working group, he has proposed a repository designed to support submissions to the FDA. He noted that there was some interest, but not a lot of enthusiasm for this idea in the working group, possibly because most of the members of the Repositories WG are not involved with FDA submissions. However, Roche, Novartis and GSK have been cooperating to elaborate on this idea. The process has not progressed very far, however, because of the differences in the internal processes of the three companies and the difficulty in selecting a common set of packages. Those present were very interested in pursuing this idea, and agreed that it would be helpful if this harmonization of processes and packages could be pursued in public. It was agreed that it would be better to approach the FDA as an industry and not as individual companies.

JBR also informed the group that the PhUSE working group [CSRMLW](https://github.com/phuse-org/CSRMLW) in which he participates has done some sophisticated work researching and explaining discrepancies in situations when SAS and R occasionally give different results. This work could inform R Consortium working group efforts to "validate" packages to be included in a submissions oriented repository. It was noted that opensource software needs to meet a higher standard of excellence of commercial software

The group also agreed that, if the effort proceeds further, it would be best to form a new R Consortium working group. All agree that a good place to start would be to review relevant work in this area and seek alignment with other interested groups. 


**Action:** JBR agreed to arrange for a meeting where Jeroen Ooms, a lead developer for the rOpenSci [R-Universe](https://r-universe.dev/search/) project, to speak about the innovative work that group is doing with repositories.  

Next, the discussion turned towards certification. JBR briefed the group on progress being made in the R Certification Working Group which is focused on certifying the skill set required to be effective in a mixed SAS and R statistical programming environment. He described how the group was involved in generating questions for a prototype certification exam. JBR also mentioned that independently of the [R Certification WG](https://github.com/RConsortium/R-Certification-WG), the R Consortium Board if Directors is considering the possibility of the R Consortium offering R certification exams. All present thought that R certification would be a worthwhile effort.

The next meeting of the working group will be at 9AM pacific Time on Wednesday, June 15, 2022.
