## Minutes of the Pharma Oversight Committee 2023-04-05

### Attendees

* Keaven Anderson
* James Black - Roche
* Sumesh Kalappurakal - jnJ
* Nate Mockler - Biogen
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio

### Absent

* Sean Healey = Pfizer
* Andy Nicholls - GSK 
* Steffen Falgreen Larsen - Novo Nordisk
* Parexel


Minutes by Joseph B Rickert

There was a short discussion about Transcelerate and those present agreed that there is no reason to pursue a relationship at this time.

JBR briefly described his meeting with Randy Betancourt of Altair and how Altair has taken over rights to the WPS SAS compiler and is seeking to market this product in the U.S.

JBR stated that it appears that the LF events team and the useR! 2024 conference team are both waiting for each other to take the next step.

**Actions**: James will remind the useR! 2024 conf team about team about updating their requirements for the conference and JBR will check on progress from the LF events team.

JBR mentioned that he recently had a conversation with Guillaumme Desarchy of Astrazeneca about joining the R Consortium and asked if anyone had any other contacts at that company. Keaven mentioned [Simon Hodsworth](https://www.linkedin.com/in/simon-holdsworth-b7b07412/), director of Statistical Programming.

There was a brief discussion about Atorus:

* JBR noted that the seem to be backing off from RC activities
* James suggested that they are concentrating on the pharmaverse, noting that Atorus is focusing on clinical trial reporting and that RC activities are of wider scope.
* Sumesh noted that Atorus is selling their validation product which had validated 150 or so packages and that they have a contract with J&J

JBR asked if the pharmaverse has sorted out who exactly is standing behind the package recommendations made by the pharmaverse: is it the companies for whom the pharmaverse council members work, or is it the individuals of the pharmaverse council. Sumesh advised that the answer to that question would be decided soon.

JBR provided brief updates on the R Consortium Working Groups:

* The FDA asked the Submissions WG to fix a parameter setting error that propagate population subsetting beyond its intended scope and clean up several warnings and error messages and resubmit Pilot 2. The FDA will review this resubmission before giving its final report.
* Doug Kelkhoff has taken over the lead of the R Validation Hub from Andy Nicholls and is also leading the Validation Hub subgroup looking into possibly establishing a repository for FDA submissions. JBR noted that this group recently met with the [R Repositories](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg) WG and that the record of that meeting has been recorded in the minutes of the 2023-04-03 meeting. He also noted that the two working groups have agreed to collaborate at least to the extent of tracking each others activities.

The next meeting of the Pharma Oversight Committee will be at 9AM Pacific time on Wednesday, May 17, 2023
